The gameplay mostly consists of finding secrets.

There’s a library, with a lamp you can TURN causing the bookcase to move, revealing a "Hidden Cellar" with a skeleton and some garlic. The library also has a book on Ghost Stories with the note "the third is 7".
There’s a lounge with fireplace and firewood and lighting the fire (with matches from another room) reveals a "Hidden Room" with cobwebs and a ladder.


There’s a dining room with a "small panel" where PRESS PANEL reveals some keys. The keys let you in two locked doors (including the previously mentioned bedroom).
There’s a "portrait of old Arthur Flagstone" where "The eyes are watching me." Finding a KNIFE in a nearby clock and using CUT PAINTING causes a scream, revealing a piece of paper which says "the first is 3".
There’s a study with a DESK that has an ASHTRAY and a LARGE PANEL. I suspect the LARGE PANEL can open just like the smaller one did because there’s a custom "How?" message when I try to OPEN PANEL, but this is one place I’m stuck.

The only other lingering puzzle I have is a CAN I can’t open. I get the intuition this is supposed to be an "easy game" yet I’m stuck just as much as I would be on a hard game. It doesn’t help there’s likely a secret passage I haven’t unlocked yet but I have no idea where it is (that is, I’m missing a so-called "secret puzzle" which I’ve written about before).

1. You need to receive an in-game hint.
2. The hint is provided organically (arguably), rather than via fourth-wall-breaking (i.e., it’s not from using the "HELP" command).
3. In real life, what common action is sometimes suggested to facilitate solving a difficult problem?
4. What are some common ways text adventures use to organically (arguably) provide prophetic or cryptic hints?
5. Particularly via an action you’d expect to have different results on different attempts?
6. How do you get clues in Infocom’s Enchanter?
7. You need to sleep on the problem.
8. On your second successful sleep, you will receive an important dream/clue.

