invent 
not now!
you are
you can' t go that way
drop
that item isn'there
you don't have it
okay
get
you can only carry six items
it' s not a visible item
it isn'there
loo k
not now!
huh?
i see nothing special
you're too kind
you
l’ll fall
it’s impossible
to whom?
you can’t open it
what?
Ok
uggh!! 
you can’t move it
no way!
you drink too much
ok yechh!
It’s jammed 
ok oops!
so what?
it bounces back and hits your head 
you can’t
pheww!!!
i hear nothing intelligible 
you are in the cab
a calendar and name plate are on the desk. a closed door is east
a telephone on the desk rings. a voice says, "this is officer strade.  come to the crow ley estate now. There’s been a murder" 
a hansom cab is parked at the curb. the driver smiles
the driver says, "climb in, govenor"
the driver asks, "where to, govenor?"
he replies, "what’s that, sir?"
a small vial sits next to him on the seat 
the cab is passing thru Trafalgar square
you can see big ben’ s tower to the south
the cab pulls into a tree lined lane and up a long driveway
the cabbie says, "here we are, sir "
the cabbie takes 10 sh illings and says, "thank you, sir"
"sorry govenor", he says, "if you can’t pay, i can’t let you out" 
police i nspector harbour is on the porch 
he say s, "hello, mr black. the body is in the kitchen. inspector strade is inside"
the cabinet is locked
inspector strade’s body falls out onto the floor
a large cabinet is here
a large cabinet is open inspector strade lies mutilated on the floor 
a rose wood chest is here
with what ? ?
the screws come out
a crucifix is here, along with an old yellowed note
an open chest is here
the note reads 5271
an old victrola is here and a grand piano
the crank is stuck 
a gold key is lodged in the crank
the victrola begins playing
the music is mozart
it’s too dark to see much the figure is on the floor
"my name is davonn. no man murdered my master. now it is loose!!"
davonn’s throat has been ripped out
the room is cluttered
there is a silver book on the desk
a crystal ball is here
it reads, "i am doomed today. the demon is trapped in the house he'll be here long after my death"
there is more to read
"the demon has corrupted my blood. he will infest the generations that follow me"
a small statue is here
a tremendous force thrusts you against a wall. there is a hideous smell 
a stairway is north
the corpse is now here to be seen. a nailed-shut door is north
a brown slimey growth is on the floor
a large china cabinet and a marble table are here. doorways are north and east
a smashed china cabinet is here. doorways are north and east
a plate of delicious looking food is here
ummm. that was good
the growth slides over to the plate.  it devours the food and grows to the size of a small dog
the growth shoots under the china cabinet and dissappears. the cabinet falls with a crash
a letter opener and a hand axe fall out of the smashed cabinet
the brown growth shot away from you and begins devouring the food
it’s growing at a tremendous rate. it’s almost as large as you are
the growth towers over you. it is still consuming food
the growth completely devoured you 
there is a noise from behind the plywood wall 
there's a large hole in the north wall 
the axe chops a hole in the wall
a tremendous voice booms: "you have not the power to face me yet. be warned"
everything is filthy. apowerful smell lingers
an ancient book lies on a table
the book reads: "gafal a alone can help "
the lock has four dials on it 
the door is unlocked
the door clicks 
what's the comb ination? 
a huge monstrou s creatu re ishe re the room is freezin g
the creature tore you to pieces
you were eat en alive. a horrible death!
a powerful force slams you against a wall. a horrible voice shrieks!
you are thrown flat on the floor. a voice bellows: "soon you'll be mine!"
the room cools off and fills with smoke. your crucifix is red hot
an evil smoke drifts thru the room 
the west wall has collapsed exposing a stairway 
a wall crumbles exposing a stairway. a voice booms, "i am near!"
a glow surrounds the figure 
"they call me gafala. i am the brother of the evil you seek. you must prepare to kill him"
"two paths lead from here, north and south. you'll need the crystal. it will show you", says gafala 
the demon horror is here: "where is your weapon, maggot?", he screams, "you are such a fool"
the demon devoured you. 
a silver club is here. 
there are decayed corpses on the floor
i think we have stumbled into the wrong adventure game.  we had better go back south
the figure resembles the portraits back in the music room
he says, "only one composer do i know. name him and i'll play for you"
the spirit plays beautifully. a stairway appears on the north wall
he is playing mozart. a stairway is north
there's a noise above your head
a golden shield is here. a rope hangs from the ceiling 
there is a light to the east
there's a circular depression in the floor
a magic sword appears from a puff of smoke
the crystal sinks into the depre ssion. it clears and begins to glow
the ball shows a vision of a sword and a beautiful fountain of green liquid-- then it disappears
a voice in the dark shrieks: "he has the sword, but it is not yet cleansed"
a doorway is south and a stone stairway is north
you would'nt want to know the details of what just happened to you. we'll just start the game over 
the rat leaps and bites a chunk off lesh off your arm
a dead rat is here. a closed door is west. a stairway is south
what do you want to use? 
the rat grabbed you and ripped your throat out 
the rat squeals, spins, and drops dead on the floor
the rat dodges your blow and sneers
a north stair way is blocked by huge wooden beams
a hole has been hacked exposing a stairway north
the presence passes. the demon has moved on
you are smashed to the floor like an ant. it is here. it screams, "where are your sacraments?"
a ghost #name? image of gafala is in the room. a golden doorway is north
gafala says, "i can hel p you no more. you have but one moment t o strike . your p ower wil l save you till then"
you can s ee energ y waves radiating from the fountain
the sword gleams brightly. you can feel power surging within it. from the north comes a wail
it is too dark. . 
the demon howls. "your sword has no power yet you fool.  die for me."
the demon shouts, "you strike too soon, maggot. you broke your magic. and allow me this treat"
the demon h urls you thru th e air. w hen your body st rikes a wallthe demon s creams a laugh
your face is red from the heat of its breath. it howls, "thank you for dropping in. fool!"
it slams you into a small passage and screams: "you've been duped. you can't kill me"
your body shakes with convulsions as the demon tries to crush you
the demon touches the sword and it glows white hot. the evil screams with pain
it belches a sheet of flame which engulfs your body. 
the demon stares in to your face. "j oin me.  spawn o f dirt", it scre ams,"an d share the powe r that i s mine" 
the demon roars, "no ho pe now, fool,yo u have m issed yo ur momen t. . far ewell to you"
it's a colt
it's only money
it says a black 
it's a white elephant
it's gold
it's holy water
it says 5271
it's glowing faintly
it's very small 
it's in laid silver
it's indescribable 
nothing special 
it sparkles
it has ancient symbols on it
it's very heavy
it's april 2, 1913 
it says inspector black...  scotland yard
it has a crank on the side
they have fiendish eyes. they don't look human
his body is torn to pieces 
it has two large doors 
it's fastened with two screws 
his mind has snapped
it's the diary of adam crowley. the date is 1742
boy!.  are you grisley!
it's 17th century
it's vibrating
it forms frightening shapes 
his eyes glow like fire
no, thank you !
it glows brightly and sprays a cloud of green liquid
they are magic runes
you see a view of london at night
you man aged to escape your encounter with the demon and somehow ended up here unharmed 
con gratulations.  you have just defeated the demon!. jyym and norm thank you for playing the curse of crowley manor
it appears to be ordinary
