                           A DUNGEON & DRAGONS STYLE GAME
                               FOR THE MC-10 AND COCO

The following are instructions for my DUNGEON.TXT game for the MC-10 and MC-10 
Emulator.  I'm still working on the CoCo version, which I hope will be available
for the 2009 Asimov Awards.

This game is based roughly on the original basic rules of D&D. On the dungeon 
screen, red walls definitely contain no secret passages, while the orange walls 
are ones you haven't searched yet.  The letters in the dungeon have the 
following meanings:
M=WANDERING MONSTERS
P=PARTY
X=TRAPS
D=DOORS (run into these to make the first character "bash" them.  Try again if 
necessary. The strength of the first character determines the rate of success)
I=MAGIC ITEMS
$=GOLD
Use the arrow keys to move your party, or select one of the letters listed on 
the main menu bar to perform actions.  Remember that every move and action takes 
up time in the dungeon and increases the possibility of attracting wandering 
monsters, so be selective about what you do.  Don't, for example, just search 
for traps or secret passages indiscriminately.  Bashing doors rather than picking
their locks attracts monsters, but takes less time.  Picking locks takes more
time, but the doors can then be relocked.  Monsters cannot go through locked doors 
or enabled traps.  Locked doors and enabled traps appear in reverse video.

The following actions are available from the main menu bar:
SE(C)RET
Pressing C searches for hidden passages (having a dwarf in the party helps).
T(R)AP
Pressing R searches for hidden traps (the more live members the better).  There
is a chance you might not discover a trap, even when searching, so sometimes
searching multiple times can help.  This is also true for the thief actions
that are decribed next.  Traps must be visible for thieves to disable them.
(T)HIEF
If you have a thief in your party and hit T, he or she will try to pick any locks 
or disable any traps in spaces next to the party.  If doors are already unlocked 
or traps are disabled, then the thief will try to lock a door or re-enable a 
trap.  Sometimes, the thief's actions will have unwanted effects on nearby doors 
and traps.
(M)ISSILE+
Pressing M cycles through all the living party members and allows you to choose 
whether they will fire their ranged weapons or use magic.  Choose a direction to 
fire (W,A,S,Z) or press N if you wish not to fire or use magic.
(O)RDER
Pressing O allows you to change the marching order of the party.  In melee 
combat the first two members are the ones who do the fighting.  The rules of
combat are similar to original basic D&D.  Dexterity bonuses & armour class are
factored in.  Damage varies according to weapon type.  The order of who strikes
first is determined by who has the higher dexterity number (a character or the
monster).  Characters get EX points for the monsters they kill.

On the party member information screens, the codes have the following meanings:
NM=CHARACTER NAME (Up to 6 characters in length)
ST=STRENGH (High scores for this add to success in opening doors and hit damage)
IN=INTELLIGENCE (Pre-req for magic users and elves)
WI=WISDOM (Pre-req for clerics)
DX=DEXTERITY (High scores for this quality add to your chances to hit)
CO=CONSTITUTION (High scores for this add to your hit points.  Pre-req for dwarves)
CA=CHARISMA (Pre-req for elves)
HP=HIT POINTS
AC=ARMOUR CLASS (Determined by the armour you buy and any dexterity bonuses)
LV=LEVEL
EX=EXPERIENCE (High scores for the pre-reqs for a character earns bonuses here) 
MO=MARCHING ORDER (The order of the character in the party for melee combat)
$$=GOLD
The number after the CA (Charisma point) number is the amount of EX points and $$ 
gold pieces needed to obtain the next level.  As the party members increase in level, 
the dungeons should get tougher.  When you buy items the old items are simply 
replaced.  Shields cannot be used with two-handed weapons (and will be discarded 
if you select them).  The two handed weapons are the sword and the axe.  You can 
load parties at the beginning of games.  You can save parties when you exit a
dungeon by way of the main entrance where you came in, or by any passages you create
in the outer walls of the dungeon by using the Blast spell.  Magical characters must
choose spells to re-memorize before each game if they used them in previous games.
Magic items can have multiple "charges", but otherwise they act the same as spells.

The spells that can be used by magic users, clerics and elves are as follows:
REVEAL=REVEAL SECRET ROOMS, TRAPS AND TREASURE
HEALING=RESTORE FULL HIT POINTS TO A PARTY MEMBER
LOCKING=LOCK ANY NEARBY DOORS
SHIELD=CREATE A SHIELD OF LOCKED DOORS AROUND PARTY
MISSILE=MAGIC MISSILE (Not recommended for Clerics)
BLAST=DESTROY WALLS
TURN=TURN UNDEAD MONSTERS
APARATE=TELEPORT TO RANDOM LOCATION IN DUNGEON
REVIVE=RESURRECT A DEAD PARTY MEMBER (Success depends on level of caster)
Reveal is a good spell to use at the beginning, when your party is just starting 
out.  It shows where to find gold (so you can buy more and better equipment).  
It also shows you where to find magic items.

When you first create a party, make sure to choose characters with a good starting
number of hit points.  Certain characters get various bonuses, for example,
halflings have automatic +1 on dexterity, while elves help improve your party's 
chances of avoiding being hurt by traps.  After you have rolled and selected a 
party of five characters, you will be taken to the dungeon.  You have a choice
to load a dungeon map you have created using the MAKEDUNG.TXT program (also
available on this site).  Or you can select N and you will be able to explore
a randomly generated dungeon.  Every random dungeon has at least one treasure
room, which will usually contain some treasure and possibly a magic item, and
at least one protecting monster.  All the monsters have different characterisitcs.
You must learn these as you go. Magic wands can have up to 3 spells stored in them,
while rings can only store up to 2 spells. Good luck in exploring the dungeons.

I am looking for feedback, so please pass on your comments about the game.

Jim Gerrie
2009

Programmed in honour of the memory of Gary Gygax.  Thanks for all the fun!
