 Kind: captions Language: ru Hello everyone, with you Lelia! I greet you on my channel - Pantheresha. Choosing a game for the next flop, I suddenly wondered which game in the horror genre was the first? And for a short while, it turned out that it was "AX-2: Uchuu Yusousen Nostromo". But as long as I pronounce the Japanese language for a long time, I will simply call it Nostromo Vpricini, the information is not 100%, because it was not possible to find reliable sources. that the first horror game was Nostromo. And so, the game dates back to 1981. And even on some gaming portals there is an exact release date - this is December 31, 1981 Of course this is doubtful, but we will miss this point - we will not discuss it further. Manual on the game and at least some intelligible description, in these your Internet, it was not found, but some magically preserved cover of the game! So let's together guess at the cover - what kind of animal is this. Using translators from the lunar, we learn that the game is called AX-2: Space transport ship "Nostromo" ... Nostromo ... hmm, is it a game of the movie "Alien" or what? The film was released on the screen in 1979, and the game itself is laid out on the shelves in 1981, so it may well be true. But the image of the globular ball enveloped by some tentacles does not cause an association with Aliens ... Let's return to the title, at first I thought that Uchuu Yusousen is the name and surname of the programmer who wrote this game, But no, but it turns out that he created the game, then a student of Tokyo University and was part of the microcomputer club of the University of Tokyo, which by the way financially supported the not-unknown Taito - Akira Tagiguchi, who later created the famous "Olion". Nostromo was created for the computer PET 2001 and later ported to PC-6001 - Masakuni Mitsuhashi and received in the title, proud AX! And the prefix AX in the name of the game - it was an attempt to create a recognizable brand all the same Inf slip slipped that yes - when creating the game Akira was inspired by the film "Stranger". Well, let's change into the suit of a spaceship pilot and start this game. The key is to start! The original game Nostromo - went to the computer PET-2001 But, unfortunately, I could not find the rum with the game. Therefore, we will play the official port on PC-6001. Actually, the cover considered earlier was from the edition with PC-6001. As I do not have this computer, we will naturally play on the emulator. So let's try to run! How many pages? I do not know what that means, but we'll press one. Load the cassette ... And start ... Wow, great - it works! In the game, the sounds are those. If you listen for a long time, your ears will become clouded! Although for 1981 - it was, perhaps, super! But in our time - it's impossible to listen to it. Therefore we will insert our musical accompaniment And this is music from Sergey Kirsten. Links to his work - can be found in the description of this video. If you watch this game according to the script of the film, then a circle, this is the main character - Helen Ripley. A dog in the shape of a dog sign is an Alien. The game throws us into the compartment of the cargo ship Symbols of maps - mean some resources that need to be collected to support the life of the ship. These resources are in containers. In principle, the task is simple. But we are hampered by an Alien who constantly persecutes us. And yet, we are complicated by the fact that we can carry no more than five units of resources in the red zone of rescue. In this game, there are advantages for Ripley and is that the Alien can not enter the red zone and into the containers where our vital resources are located Wow! In this game there is a screensaver! Mmm ... And here's the Stranger! But for 1981 - it was, most likely, scary! And this level, is a bonus stage, where the Alien stands still, and we at this time should collect four units of each resource. Question! Why this game belongs to the genre of horror? After all, in appearance - this is another variation of PecMena ... But that's the point! The bottom line is that from the seventh level, the Alien becomes invisible, but we hear it and a few steps from us - we begin to see it! In principle, as straight in the movie, where he attacks from various unexpected places for the crew of the ship. And here at the eighteenth level I have a problem - that we need to collect seven units of each resource, but as we can see - the bubi, the crucifixes and ... there six pieces - six units each! Well, let's try to collect everything and see what happens ... So this is what? Glitch games? We collected everything that is possible and in the end we do not have enough for one unit of three resources. And the game does not end. We can only wait for the timer to end or jump into the Alien's jaws, so that it will not be long. Hmm ... And the most interesting is that it's not a glitch! And so conceived! And there is no escape on this ship ... And in any case, we will die sooner or later! But the finale will be one ... It's death ... And this is Japan ... It's fucking-Akira Tagiguchi ... It's 1981, his mother ... That's it, actually, the story of horror games began That's all. With you was Lyolya. All for now! Put your likes and subscribe to my channel!
