NOTES:
1. At the time of this writing (June 2022), this game can be played online here:
http://retrobits.altervista.org/tinybasicblazor/

2. Unfortunately, the version of the game listed has a fatal bug. When you get to the island, you
get the following error message and the game ends:
YOU ARE IN A SMALL ISLAND
IN FRONT OF YOU HORIZON IS LOST
Tiny Basic error #62 at line 21210

3. The website listed above includes the code. The game may be unfinished anyway (see below).

4. The code is also available on GitHub: https://github.com/makarcz/mkhbc8rx

The GitHub version of the code reads:
21210 PR"HORIZON IS LOST"

compared to the same line on the version I played:
21210 PR"HORIZON IS LOST (this version is missing the second " mark, which apparently
causes the error).

Although I did not compare both versions of the code line by line, they appear the same. Neither
version has an ending. 

HINTS
1. The game is pretty short (it is called Tiny Adventure, after all). 
2. The only real challenge is navigating the map. Directions are given relative to the direction you
are facing (Forward, Backward, Left, Right). If you change direction, such as by  L L 
(Looking Left), the directions change without your character even moving. 
3. Commands are given by one letter only (G for Go, L for Look, T for Take etc.). If you forget and
use more than one letter, the game gets confused. I typed Get (instead of the recognzied T for 
take, and the game made me Go East, reading only G-E- and dropping the t). 
4. There is an H command for Help, which mostly only reveals the verbs you can use at the moment. It
will not tell you there is a verb O until there is something to O(pen), or D until there 
is something to (D)rink, etc. Use the H command when you are in new places for hints at what you can
do in that place. 
5. Sometimes objects in a room can only be seen when you look in a particular direction. For
example, if you L L (for Look Left), you might see a bed, or if you L R you might see a table. 
You can L D or L U to look down or up. 
6. You can only have one item at a time in your hands, but you can K(eep) as many items in your
knapscak as you want. Don't confuse it with the P command, or you will P(utdown) the item
instead. 
You can then (T)ake items out of your knapsack (T ROCK, for example). 
7. There is no story to this game, nor any obvious quest from the beginning. You just need to
collect items and figure out what you are supposed to do as you play. 

PARTIAL WALKTHROUGH
This is not a step by step walkthrough because the game cannot be completed without some code fixing
(if at all). It will give you a general idea of how to play. 

You start in a Meadow. 
G L (to go left to the ravine). Note that if you L(ook) at things, your perspective will change, and
then G L(eft) might not lead you to the ravine.
(If you go left from the ravine while going this direction, you will fall into a crevice behind the
waterfall. You will only see the waterfall if you L L, but this will change your perspective. 
The crevice is a shortcut we might use later, but without a light source, it's not a good idea
for now).
T ROCK (I never found a use for it, but you might as well)
G F (to the forest)
K ROCK (to put it in your knapsack)
T SWORD
G B (to go back to the ravine. You can travel any direction you want into the woods, and will get
lost. Nothing to see there).
G F (to return to the meadow, but you are now facing a new direction so you will see a cottage. You
can G F again until to arrive at a door, but you do not have the key).
G R (to arrive at a Meadow in front of sheer cliffs. It does not tell you unless you L around that
you are near the side of the cottage)
L L twice (to Look around, first you will see a thick hedge that you cannot pass, and then you will
see a window)
G F (to the window)
O WINDOW (to open the window)
G F (through the window into the bedroom) 
L L (and you will see the bed)
L L again (and you will see the window you just crawled through)
L L again (and you will see a closed chest)
O CHEST (it does not tell you what you see)
L R, then L L (look away and the look back, you will see some keys)
K SWORD (to put the sword in the knapsack, so you can . . .)
T KEYS
L L (and you will see an open door)
G F (through the door into a hallway with stairs going down in front of you) 
L R (and you will see a doorway opening into a room)
G F (into the room with table)
K KEYS
T FLASK
K FLASK
T LANTERN (you do not have to worry about lighting the lantern, as it is automatic if you are
holding it)
G B (to the hallway)
G R (to go down the stairs into the wine cellar, remember your perspective has changed)
L L (to see a closed door)
O DOOR (oops, the door is locked. Fortunately, the keys work on every lock in the game)
K LANTERN
T KEYS
O DOOR
K KEYS
T LANTERN (as it is dark in thenext location)
G F (into a tunnel, or dark tunnel if you are not holding the lantern)
G F (into a tunnel again)

Here things get a little mazy. L around to see four exits from the second tunnel: three tunnels
(down into the gloom, up into the gloom, and off into the gloom, and a locked door).

There is a cavern with a dragon (which you can A(ttack) DRAGON with your sword. Repeat until
it's dead, and T SWORD if you drop it). The Dragon comes back to life if you kill it and come
back.
Incidentally, this is where we would appear if we fell into the crevice. 

There is a Troll's Den. A(ttack) TROLL with your sword just like the dragon. In both cases, you
have to P(utdown) your lantern before you T SWORD from the knapsack, but don't forget to T
LANTERN 
after you K SWORD when you are done with it. The Troll sometimes steals things, even from your
knapscak, so be sure to T them once it's dead. Then O CHEST, L F to see some jewels, 
T JEWELS and K JEWELS. Meanwhile, the MAIDEN will be holding out her hand. You can T MAIDEN, but
then you can't carry your lantern. She will follow you anyway.

There is a Cavern with an axe (so T AXE). You G F into the sunshine to reach the fatal line error
here. 

HOW THE GAME IS PROBABLY SUPPOSED TO END
All the way back in the beginning of the game, if you immediately G F (Go Forward), you will come to
the shore where you will see a nearby island with a boat beached on it. You cannot get to 
it from the shore (trying to G F from there says CAN'T).

If the game did not have the fatal error, you would probably have to complete the game like this:
Once through the cave on the island, G F to the boat (it cannot be G BOAT as the game would read
that as Go Backward - remember, first letter only). If the boat is locked, 
you might have to O BOAT first.

Once in the boat, you would have to G F to launch the boat (it cannot be L to launch, as that would
be LOOK). 

Examining the code on the website provided, you can see that there is a "lost at sea"
routine and only one "in boat at sea" location. Therefore, you most likely just G F from
the small island, 
and G F again straight back to the mainland. Going any other direction will land you in the
"lost at sea" location. You can L D to see that water is clear, and L U to see the Big
Dipper twinkle.

Then, you probably have to take the maiden back to the starting location, or perhaps the cottage? I
cannot tell, because the code provided offers no endgame message at all. 
Either the game was never completed, or this is an incomplete version of the game.

ALTERNATE ESCAPE FROM THE TUNNELS WITH THE MAIDEN
You could simply return to the wine cellar. While she will follow you in the caves or tunnels (as
long as the Dragon or Troll are not present, in which case she just screams), 
she will not follow you into the wine cellar unless you T MAIDEN to hold her hand. Remember, no
lantern that way. In any case, I confirmed there is nowhere to take her that will end the game. 

(C) CASA 1999 - 2022
